fix(docs): improve router docs 2 (#23176)
expo/expo: docs/pages/distribution/publishing-websites.mdx

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tab, Tabs } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

A web app created using Expo can be served locally for testing out the production behavior. Once the testing phase checks out, you can choose from a variety of third-party services to host it.

## Create a build

Creating a build of the project is the first step to publishing a web app. Whether you want to serve it locally or host it on a third-party service, you'll need to export all JavaScript and assets of a project. This is known as a static bundle. It can be exported by running the following command:

<Tabs>

<Tab label="Expo Router">

Run the universal export command to compile the project for web:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo export -p web']} />

The project files will be output in the **dist** folder. Any files inside the **public** directory will also be copied to the **dist** folder.

</Tab>

<Tab label="webpack">

Run the webpack export command to compile the project for web:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo export:web']} />

> The project files will be output in the **web-build** folder. Any files inside the **web** directory will also be copied to the **web-build** folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting project files are in the **web-build** directory. Any files inside the **web** directory are also copied to the **web-build** directory.
```

> }
> ```

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Serve Locally

Use [Serve CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serve) to quickly test locally how your website will be hosted in production. Run the following command to serve the static bundle:

<Tabs>

<Tab label="Expo Router">

If you're using [static rendering](/router/reference/static-rendering), then you can serve the static bundle with the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx serve dist']} />

Otherwise, use the `--single` flag to redirect all requests to the single **dist/index.html** file.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx serve dist --single']} />

> Then, open [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) to see your project in action. This method is **HTTP only**, so permissions, camera, location, and many other secure features won't work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) to see your project in action. This method is **HTTP only**, so permissions, camera, location, and many other secure features won't work.
```

</Tab>

<Tab label="webpack">

Run the following command to serve the single-page application:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx serve web-build --single']} />

> Then, open [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) to see your project in action. This method is **HTTP only**, so permissions, camera, location, and many other things won't work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) to see your project in action. This method is **HTTP only**, so permissions, camera, location, and many other things won't work.
```

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Hosting on third-party services

### Netlify

[Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) is a mostly-unopinionated platform for deploying web apps. This has the highest compatibility with Expo web apps as it makes few assumptions about the framework.

#### Manual deployment with the Netlify CDN

<Step label="1">

Install the Netlify CLI by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g netlify-cli']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Configure redirects for single-page applications.

<Tabs>

<Tab label="Expo Router">

> If your app uses [static rendering](/router/reference/static-rendering), then you can skip this step.

> `expo.web.output: 'single'` generates a single-page application. This means there's only one **dist/index.html** file which all requests must be redirected to. This can be done in Netlify by creating a `./public/_redirects` file and redirecting all requests to `/index.html`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`expo.web.output: 'single'` generates a single-page application. It means there's only one **dist/index.html** file to which all requests must be redirected. This can be done in Netlify by creating a **./public/_redirects** file and redirecting all requests to **/index.html**.
```

```sh public/_redirects
/*    /index.html   200
```

> If you modify this file, you will need to rebuild your project with `npx expo export -p web` to have it safely copied into the **dist** directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you modify this file, you must rebuild your project with `npx expo export -p web` to have it safely copied into the **dist** directory.
```

</Tab>

<Tab label="webpack">

> If your app implements any navigation, you'll need to configure Netlify to redirect requests to the single **web-build/index.html** file. This can be done in Netlify by creating a `./public/_redirects` file and redirecting all requests to `/index.html`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your app implements any navigation, you'll need to configure Netlify to redirect requests to the single **web-build/index.html** file. This can be done in Netlify by creating a **./public/_redirects** file and redirecting all requests to **/index.html**.
```

> Navigate inside the **web-build** directory and run the following command to create **\_redirects** file with rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate inside the **web-build** directory and run the following command to create **\_redirects** file with follwing rule:
```

```sh web/_redirects
/*    /index.html   200
```

> If you modify this file, you will need to rebuild your project with `npx expo export:web` to have it safely copied into the **web-build** directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you modify this file, you must rebuild your project with `npx expo export:web` to have it safely copied into the **web-build** directory.
```

</Tab>

</Tabs>

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Deploy the web build folder by running the following command:

<Tabs>
  <Tab label="Expo Router">
    <Terminal cmd={['$ netlify deploy --dir dist']} />
  </Tab>

  <Tab label="webpack">
    <Terminal cmd={['$ netlify deploy --dir web-build']} />
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

> You will see a URL that you can use to view your project online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll see a URL that you can use to view your project online.
```

</Step>

#### Continuous delivery

Netlify can also build and deploy when you push to git or open a new pull request:

- [Start a new Netlify project](https://app.netlify.com/signup).
- Pick your Git hosting service and select your repository.
- Click **Build your site**.

### Vercel

[Vercel](https://vercel.com/) has a single-command deployment flow.

> > For more information on hosting, check out [Vercel's pricing](https://vercel.com/pricing).

Reviewer: I think we can remove the link to their pricing page. It's common knowledge that most services we've listed will here have paid plans

Author: ```suggestion
```

<Step label="1">

Install the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/docs/cli).

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g vercel@latest']} />

</Step>
<Step label="2">
  Configure redirects for single-page applications.
  <Tabs>
    <Tab label="Expo Router">
      > If your app uses [static rendering](/router/reference/static-rendering), then you can skip this step.

>       `expo.web.output: 'single'` generates a single-page application. This means there's only one **dist/index.html** file which all requests must be redirected to. This can be done in Vercel by creating a `./public/vercel.json` file and redirecting all requests to `/index.html`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      `expo.web.output: 'single'` generates a single-page application. It means there's only one **dist/index.html** file to which all requests must be redirected. This can be done in Vercel by creating a **./public/vercel.json** file and redirecting all requests to **/index.html**.
```

      ```json public/vercel.json
      {
        "version": 2,
        "routes": [
          {
            "src": "/(.*)",
            "dest": "/"
          }
        ]
      }
      ```
      If you modify this file, you will need to rebuild your project with `npx expo export -p web` to have it safely copied into the **dist** directory.
    </Tab>
    <Tab label="webpack">

>       If your app implements any navigation, you'll need to configure Vercel to redirect requests to the single **web-build/index.html** file. This can be done in Vercel by creating a `./public/vercel.json` file and redirecting all requests to `/index.html`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If your app implements any navigation, you must configure Vercel to redirect requests to the single **web-build/index.html** file. This can be done in Vercel by creating a **`./public/vercel.json` file and redirecting all requests to `/index.html`.**
```

      Navigate inside the **web-build** directory and run the following command to create **\_redirects** file with rule:

      ```json web/vercel.json
      {
        "version": 2,
        "routes": [
          {
            "src": "/(.*)",
            "dest": "/"
          }
        ]
      }
      ```
      If you modify this file, you will need to rebuild your project with `npx expo export:web` to have it safely copied into the **web-build** directory.

    </Tab>

  </Tabs>
</Step>

<Step label="3">
  Compile the Expo website.
  <Tabs>
    <Tab label="Expo Router">
      <Terminal cmd={['# Compiles to ./dist', '$ npx expo export -p web']} />
    </Tab>
    <Tab label="webpack">
      <Terminal cmd={['# Compiles to ./web-build', '$ npx expo export:web']} />
    </Tab>
  </Tabs>
</Step>

<Step label="4">
  Deploy the website.
  <Tabs>
    <Tab label="Expo Router">
      <Terminal cmd={['$ vercel deploy dist --prebuilt']} />
    </Tab>
    <Tab label="webpack">
      <Terminal cmd={['$ vercel deploy web-build --prebuilt']} />
    </Tab>
  </Tabs>

> You should now see a URL that you can use to view your project online. Paste that URL into your browser when the build is complete, and you will see your deployed app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll now see a URL that you can use to view your project online. Paste that URL into your browser when the build is complete, and you'll see your deployed app.
```

<Step label="1">

Add the [**amplify-explicit.yml**](https://github.com/expo/amplify-demo/blob/master/amplify-explicit.yml) file to the root of your repo.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Push your local Expo project to a GitHub repository. If you haven't pushed to GitHub yet, follow [GitHub's guide to add an existing project to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github).

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Login to the [Amplify Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/amplify/home) and choose **Get started** under **Deploy**. Grant Amplify permission to read from your GitHub account or the organization that owns your repo.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

The Amplify Console will detect that the **amplify.yml** file is in your repo. Choose **Next**.

</Step>

<Step label="5">

Review your settings and choose **Save and deploy**. Your app will now be deployed to a `https://branchname.xxxxxx.amplifyapp.com` URL.

</Step>

### GitHub Pages

[GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) allows you to publish a website directly from a GitHub repository.

> > Expo Router websites do not support deployment to GitHub Pages yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **warning** Expo Router websites do not support deployment to GitHub Pages yet.
```

I think we can use a warning callout here.
